# Phishing
BFOR519 Final Project - Phishing Simulation

## Project Overview 
The subject I chose to work on for this project is phishing. I used a real world example of the phishing tests that we conduct as an IT team for the company I work at, and on top of that, I created my own phishing test and sent it to close friends and family with their consent which I got several weeks ago. Simulated phishing tests are conducted within organizations to ensure that employees remain vigilant and are careful of what links they click, what files they download, and what information they give out. Phishing is one of the most used and most successful forms of attacks used by cyber criminals. I work at an incredibly small organization, around 300 employees, and we receive an excess amount of phishing emails on a weekly basis. There are simple phishes that request for you to call a number to cancel a payment you made, or more in-depth phishes that prompt you to a fake Microsoft login page where you enter in your company credentials. Seeing the mass amounts of phishing emails we receive daily is what initially sparked my interest to this topic, and that's why I chose it for my final.

For the first part of my project, I created a realistic phishing email themed around holiday giftcards and Amazon delivery issues. It is the holiday season right now, millions of emails are being sent to inboxes offering holiday deals, and most people are ordering gifts for their friends and family. It isn't unusual to receive legitimate e-giftcards delivered straight to your email, or receive emails that the package you ordered has been delayed, but the question is, are those emails legit? In the emails I sent, there was a hyperlink that redirected the participants to a Google Form to fillout where they explain what made them think the email was legitimate and allows them to explain any red flags they may have had while reading the email. 

The second part of my project was sent a simulated phishing test sent out to the majority of employees at my company using a cybersecurity training platform that simulates phishing tests called KnowBe4. Typically, our Security Analyst and Senior IT Tech handle the monthly phishing tests but they allowed me to take a more hands on approach as well as further analyzing the data so that I can use it for this project. KmowBe4 sends out randomized simulated phishing emails to employees and monitors who opens the email, who clicked on a link in the email, and who opened the attachments. The links typically bring you to a page explaining that you have opened a simulated phishing email, shows the signs that you should've looked for before clicking any links or attachments, and gives a brief lesson on how to avoid phish emails in the future.

The primary objective of this project was to track the behavior of multiple users when opening a simulated phishing email. I wanted to see the reaction of a "too good to be true" email, and the reaction of an email that may cause panic because something went wrong. When being prompted with over excitement or increased stress, do people ignore the suspicious red flags within the email, or will they notice the red flags and proceed with caution. 

## Project Relevance
As stated earlier, phishing is one of the most persistent threats in the cyber world, and can be extremely damaging if you are not cautious. Not only are phishing emails dangerous in and of itself, but they frequently are a beginning stage of larger attacks. Phishing emails can be used as a step in the door to steal further credentials, take over the entirety of a users accounts, comprimise business credentials and emails, and even deploy ransomware. Bad actors are constantly developing new techniques to try and gain unauthorized access to many things, and we see phishing emails constantly evolve. No less then an hour ago at work we received a phish alert so I investigated it, the email looked extremely legit and brought you to a fake Microsoft sign in page, the only off thing was the URL. If you clicked forgot my password, it brought you to the Microsoft website, and all of the other hyperlinks were apart of the phish. Phishing simulations are crucial because while bad actors advance their techniques, organizations, users, and all people in general need to become more and more educated to reduce the risk of falling for a phish.

Human decision-making plays a major role within phishing attacks. Being able to tell whats real vs whats fake is crucial and can make the difference between being safe on the internet, or losing access to your entire internet presence. Many email providers provide email filtering which can help weed out a lot of spam, but if the email makes it into your inbox, you need to be able to tell the difference. This project is extremely relavent because humans make decisions every second of their life. Often times you hear people say if it's too good to be true, it probably isn't true. That plays a huge role in decision making when clicking on a phish. In my simulated phishing scenario, I sent out an email to 5 people offering a free $50 Amazon giftcard. There is no sign of who the giftcard was from, the email just states it was "from a friend". A simple hover over the hyperlink would show you that it is a phish, but some people may click the link right away because they want the free $50, who wouldn't? But clicking that free $50 could cost you.

I chose this topic because it is extremely relavent in todays society, everyone is reliant on technology, and everyone has an email or a cellphone number to receive phishing messages to. Being able to educate close friends and family that may be unaware of the threats that are posed from a phishing email is extremely important as well. Oftentimes the bad actors target vulnerable groups of people. such as people who are older and may not be familiar with technology. 
